Original:
Just exactly like Father if Father had known as much about it the night before I went out there as he did the day after I came back thinking Mad impotent old man who realized at last that there must be some limit even to the capabilities of a demon for doing harm, who must have seen his situation as that of the show girl, the pony, who realizes that the principal tune she prances to comes not from horn and fiddle and drum but from a clock and calendar, must have seen himself as the old wornout cannon which realizes that it can deliver just one more fierce shot and crumble to dust in its own furious blast and recoil, who looked about upon the scene which was still within his scope and compass and saw son gone, vanished, more insuperable to him now than if the son were dead since now (if the son still lived) his name would be different and those to call him by it strangers and whatever dragon’s outcropping of Sutpen blood the son might sow on the body of whatever strange woman would therefore carry on the tradition, accomplish the hereditary evil and harm under another name and upon and among people who will never have heard the right one; daughter doomed to spinsterhood who had chosen spinsterhood already before there was anyone named Charles Bon since the aunt who came to succor her in bereavement and sorrow found neither but instead that calm absolutely impenetrable face between a homespun dress and sunbonnet seen before a closed door and again in a cloudy swirl of chickens while Jones was building the coffin and which she wore during the next year while the aunt lived there and the three women wove their own garments and raised their own food and cut the wood they cooked it with (excusing what help they had from Jones who lived with his granddaughter in the abandoned fishing camp with its collapsing roof and rotting porch against which the rusty scythe which Sutpen was to lend him, make him borrow to cut away the weeds from the door-and at last forced him to use though not to cut weeds, at least not vegetable weeds -would lean for two years) and wore still after the aunt’s indignation had swept her back to town to live on stolen garden truck and out o f anonymous baskets left on her front steps at night, the three of them, the two daughters negro and white and the aunt twelve miles away watching from her distance as the two daughters watched from theirs the old demon, the ancient varicose and despairing Faustus fling his final main now with the Creditor’s hand already on his shoulder, running his little country store now for his bread and meat, haggling tediously over nickels and dimes with rapacious and poverty-stricken whites and negroes, who at one time could have galloped for ten miles in any direction without crossing his own boundary, using out of his meagre stock the cheap ribbons and beads and the stale violently-colored candy with which even an old man can seduce a fifteen-year-old country girl, to ruin the granddaughter o f his partner, this Jones-this gangling malaria-ridden white man whom he had given permission fourteen years ago to squat in the abandoned fishing camp with the year-old grandchild-Jones, partner porter and clerk who at the demon’s command removed with his own hand (and maybe delivered too) from the showcase the candy beads and ribbons, measured the very cloth from which Judith (who had not been bereaved and did not mourn) helped the granddaughter to fashion a dress to walk past the lounging men in, the side-looking and the tongues, until her increasing belly taught her embarrassment-or perhaps fear;-Jones who before ’61 had not even been allowed to approach the front of the house and who during the next four years got no nearer than the kitchen door and that only when he brought the game and fish and vegetables on which the seducer-to-be’s wife and daughter (and Clytie too, the one remaining servant, negro, the one who would forbid him to pass the kitchen door with what he brought) depended on to keep life in them, but who now entered the house itself on the (quite frequent now) afternoons when the demon would suddenly curse the store empty of customers and lock the door and repair to the rear and in the same tone in which he used to address his orderly or even his house servants when he had them (and in which he doubtless ordered Jones to fetch from the showcase the ribbons and beads and candy) direct Jones to fetch the jug, the two of them (and Jones even sitting now who in the old days, the old dead Sunday afternoons of monotonous peace which they spent beneath the scuppernong arbor in the back yard, the demon lying in the hammock while Jones squatted against a post, rising from time to time to pour for the demon from the demijohn and the bucket of spring water which he had fetched from the spring more than a mile away then squatting again, chortling and chuckling and saying `Sho, Mister Tawm’ each time the demon paused)-the two of them drinking turn and turn about from the jug and the demon not lying down now nor even sitting but reaching after the third or second drink that old man’s state of impotent and furious undefeat in which he would rise, swaying and plunging and shouting for his horse and pistols to ride single-handed into Washington and shoot Lincoln (a year or so too late here) and Sherman both, shouting, ‘Kill them! Shoot them down like the dogs they are!’ and Jones: ‘Sho, Kernel; sho now’ and catching him as he fell and commandeering the first passing wagon to take him to the house and carry him up the front steps and through the paintless formal door beneath its fanlight imported pane by pane from Europe which Judith held open for him to enter with no change, no alteration in that calm frozen face which she had worn for four years now, and on up the stairs and into the bedroom and put him to bed like a baby and then lie down himself on the floor beside the bed though not to sleep since before dawn the man on the bed would stir and groan and Jones would say, ‘flyer I am, Kernel. Hit’s all right. They aint whupped us yit, air they?’ this Jones who after the demon rode away with the regiment when the granddaughter was only eight years old would tell people that he ‘was lookin after Major’s place and niggers’ even before they had time to ask him why he was not with the troops and perhaps in time came to believe the lie himself, who was among the first to greet the demon when he returned, to meet him at the gate and say, ‘Well, Kernel, they kilt us but they aint whupped us yit, air they?’ who even worked, labored, sweat at the demon’s behest during that first furious period while the demon believed he could restore by sheer indomitable willing the Sutpen’s Hundred which he remembered and had lost, labored with no hope of pay or reward who must have seen long before the demon did (or would admit it) that the task was hopeless-blind Jones who apparently saw still in that furious lecherous wreck the old fine figure of the man who once galloped on the black thoroughbred about that domain two boundaries of which the eye could not see from any point.When the upper limb of the sun disappears below the horizon the brilliance of Mother Nature becomes apparent. On my left across the lake low-lying hills crawl upward across the horizon. In front of me covered by a few trees, is a lone secluded island. It looks as if it were a boat, attempting to escape to tranquil waters. On my right the hills gradually turn to mountains. A tall and slender Lodge Pole Pine minutely conceals them. Her finger-like branches delicately reach down toward the lake, trying to touch her own reflection. High above me, moisture laden clouds span out over the mountain tops, resembling a magenta colored quilt. In front of me, a broadening division in the clouds crests with a final effort to avoid succumbing to the shroud of night. The ever present island balances upon the waters, reflecting a perfect vision of it's unblemished counterpart. It is a mirrored understatement of nature's true beauty.As a child at the age of two, my sister and I had pictures taken together. My sister and I are ten months and three weeks apart. In this special family picture was look identical. Our big, dark blue and brown eyes and smile resemble two calm little girls, enjoying the moment with peaceful smiles on our faces. In our long, dark red and blue dresses we sit straight up in front of a warn red fireplace surrounded by green plants. Our dark brown, wavy hair even matched. We both had baby pink bows off to the side of our heads that resemble a blooming flower. Growing up our family consisted of our father, my sister, and I. My sister and I have both been there for each other through “the thick and the thin.” My photograph pf my sister and reveals how close we are in age and through this paragraph it also reveals how close we are when it comes to love and friendship.The old car slowly chugged down the street like the caboose of a steam engine train. The car goes up the hill it goes Ka boom , kachunk. The car is old and weathered with rust covering the entire body like cancer consuming its victim. Wheels and tires wobble like a drunk bum on his way home from the bar. Hub caps are gone along with all the mirrors and extras on the car. Black smoke flows out the rotten tail pips like the smoke out of and old cobb pipe. The local junk yard had seen better cars then this. The interior was a dusty brown with holes covering almost every square inch of the seat covers. The ceiling was hanging down and the rust had eaten through the roof like a Billy goat through a tin can. This old car is my old car and it is as faithful as a good old dog by always starting and getting me from were I need to go.A beach in Hawaii on a December day is like a day at a lake in mid August. The beach smells fresh, almost like a new ocean breeze air freshener. The sand is hot and looks like gold blended in with little white specks; it sparkles like the water running off the swimmers back and feels like walking on coals from a burning grill. Not far from the shore, you can see the coral sitting still in the wild and shallow water. Trutles drift in to see all the people. The plam trees sway in the air from the forceful wind. In a distance, a house is beutifully placed right by the water, so it can look across the ocean each and every day. People are laughing and playing in the burning sand, and others are relaxing on the beach bronzing their skin while enjoying the bright rays of light coming from the sun. From a far distance the ocean is a deep navy blue; waves come in like a bulldozer from all the wind. At night everything is still. Waves are still coming in but not as hard, while the beach is cleared from all the people. All you can hear is the waves of the ocean and the light breeze coming from the giant palm trees. The beach is a spectacular place. Leaving it is excruciating and difficult to do.My wife and I honeymooned in Playa Del Carmen, Mexico; while there, we visited the ruins of Tulum. At the entrance of the ruins, large palm frond trees stand lush and tall with wild life resting on its branches. In the middle of this miniature rain forest is a dirt path leading towards a hand built stone wall ten feet tall. While walking through the passage built in the wall, on the right, at the top of the wall sat a large, brown and green hued iguana. Just past this great wall of protection is a field of green grass overlooking the ruin's. To the left is a small court yard bordered by a stone wall leading to the agua blue, warm ocean a few hundred yards away. In a corner section of this cramped courtyard, is a fresh water hole in a cave like crevice. As you walk the acres upon acres of grass, the sounds of chirping and squawking birds permeate the air. Vibrant colored plants and iguanas of all sizes give you an idea of life as it was two thousand years ago. Enormous square and rectangular stones capture the eye for the beauty they hold both outside and the history made inside. Steep staircases rise from the ground to ascend to the top of these world treasures; in fact, a few of these temples were built atop the cliffs of the Yucatan Peninsula. The beach below is blinding white, soft coral sand, crushed to a fine powder by swift ocean currents.My eight year old son, Joshua, stands out in a crowd of children because of his distinctive appearance and gentle manner. The first thing I notice when I look at him is his size. He stands at shoulder height next to me; indeed, he is a head taller than other children his age, and is definitely stronger. His weight is a hefty 113 pounds; without a doubt, he weighs forty pounds more than other children in his grade level. Recently, my husband signed him up for flag football, where he was told: “It is a good thing the children aren’t playing tackle football, because he might inadvertently hurt the other kids.” Also remarkable is his red hair; it is thick, coarse to touch, and styled in an old-fashioned boy cut. Hardly a person can pass Joshua without rubbing his head for good luck, and saying “Where’d ya get that hair?” Joshua’s chubby face is fair, with freckles lightly dotting his exceptionally boyish features. His eyes are pale blue, and his eyebrows blond; in fact, white, in contrast with his red hair. His lips are full and somewhat feminine, and his newly-grown permanent teeth, which appear large alongside his remaining baby teeth, have a wide gap. His shoulders are broad, his chest juts out, and his belly is plump. His forearms are bulky, and will someday be powerful, yet his wrists retain the same creases he has had since he was a ten pound newborn. When we hold hands, his hands feel nearly as large as mine, and are unexpectedly soft. His legs are sturdy and strong, and his knees are covered with fresh scrapes and purple bruises, received while skateboarding and biking. His ankles are also solid; consequently, he can’t wear boots. His feet are size 6 and wide; therefore, too wide for slip-on tennis shoes. Despite his appearance, Joshua is unexpectedly sensitive and caring; in fact, he still likes to sit on my lap, an awkward feat for me. He likes to open doors for me, tend his little brother, and help me grocery shop. From head to toe he is a contradiction; although he is only eight years old, he is big and strong, while loving and gentle, and that makes him stand out from other children, at least in my eyes.In front of me on the table sat a beautiful pure white bowl, simplistic in design, hiding a decadent surprise inside. In the bowl was hidden something that was not so pure, however, the irresistible indulgence was worth every calorie that I knew it contained. As I looked inside I saw on the bottom of the bowl a hot, tender brownie loaded with macadamia nuts. I knew from past experience that the nuts had a creamy and smooth texture, almost like white chocolate. On top of the brownie were two firmly packed scoops of ice cream, laying side by side, each one a different flavor. The scoop on the right was a rich vanilla, flecked with dark specks of vanilla bean. The scoop on the left was a dark, smooth, bittersweet chocolate. The scoops were just starting to melt tiny rivers of melted cream down the sides of the hot brownie, pooling on the bottom of the pure white bowl. These scoops of ice cream were draped with a sumptuous, rich, hot fudge sauce. Topping the luscious sauce was an ample dollop of whipped cream that was in perfect contrast to the dense, almost too rich dessert below. The whipped cream was topped with a shower of chocolate sprinkles and finely chopped walnuts. What finally completed this wonderful creation was a perfect maraschino cherry, its red juice sending tiny streams down the whole mountain of dessert delight. The contrast of colors, textures and flavors in this dessert appealed to every part of my senses. I could not wait to eat it.The much advertised meteor show this summer was a memory ot behold. The air was crisp and cool. I did not even feel a hint of a breeze on my skin as I lie on my back in the darkness. The warm temperature of the water against the cooler air created a drifting airy fog that whispered over the lake. Darkness enveloped the sky as only a slight curve of the moon shone in the night; consequently, this made the perfect stage for the breathtaking view of twinkling stars. In the still of the night many galaxies glittered from the depths of the sky as I felt hypnotically drawn into the mesmorizing show above me. Broad irregular bands of light from the Milky Way stretched across the sky while the big and little dipper shined brightly. As predicted, the meteor show began with various sized meteors cascading to the earth's atmosphere about every fifteen to thirty seconds. Shots of light, followed by orange and white mist, describes the presence of the meteors. The panoramic view made it possible to witness several meteors at a time while marveling at each one. An event like this may only happen once in a lifetime, so I will cherish this moment and it will remain as one of my fondest memories.As Chad Reed pulled into the pits, you could tell just by looking at him that this had been a grueling race. His dirt bike was plastered with so much brown, wet, sticky mud that you couldn’t even read the number plates. His boots, resting comfortably on the foot pegs, were a mess of muddy brown dirt, bright white plastic and black buckles. His riding pants were soaked and covered with mud on the front, while the back remained a brilliant white and blue. His chest protector seemed to have kept most of the mud off of his blue and white jersey, although his sleeves had turned the same swampy brown color as his bike. His goggles hung looped over the handlebars of his bike, dripping the ooze it had saved from Chad’s eyes. His helmet, still on his head, was a greasy smeary brown, save for the thin line of white and blue where his goggle strap had been. Although his body looked beaten, his eyes, peering through the helmet, seemed relaxed and happy. He had just won a very long and very tiring race.Back in 1999 this fearless athlete posed in this football picture. In the far distance below the cloudless sky stands an off-white stadium. Embedded in the center is large, cracked, blue, painted, letters that spell out BISON. Beneath the old stadium are rows of worn-out bleachers which are completely empty. Up in front stands the competitor down on one knee. As you observe more, the sport player is wearing a blue Bison jersey sporting the number 60. To the left above the freshly trimmed green grass that engulfs this player’s figure lays a football. In the center of the picture, you see her pale white face and dark brown eyes. Around these features you can not help but notice the bronzed hair; which appears to be pulled back around this slender face. Her stern look shows how proud she is; nonetheless, all the confidence she carries on her padded up shoulders. This unique woman is not only elegant and brave; she is my sister, Margaret Eva Hoyt.

When Caesar shifted by 7 letters:
Qbza lehjasf sprl Mhaoly pm Mhaoly ohk ruvdu hz tbjo hivba pa aol upnoa ilmvyl P dlua vba aolyl hz ol kpk aol khf hmaly P jhtl ihjr aopurpun Thk ptwvalua vsk thu dov ylhspglk ha shza aoha aolyl tbza il zvtl sptpa lclu av aol jhwhipspaplz vm h kltvu mvy kvpun ohyt, dov tbza ohcl zllu opz zpabhapvu hz aoha vm aol zovd npys, aol wvuf, dov ylhspglz aoha aol wypujpwhs abul zol wyhujlz av jvtlz uva myvt ovyu huk mpkksl huk kybt iba myvt h jsvjr huk jhslukhy, tbza ohcl zllu optzlsm hz aol vsk dvyuvba jhuuvu dopjo ylhspglz aoha pa jhu klspcly qbza vul tvyl mplyjl zova huk jybtisl av kbza pu paz vdu mbypvbz ishza huk yljvps, dov svvrlk hivba bwvu aol zjlul dopjo dhz zapss dpaopu opz zjvwl huk jvtwhzz huk zhd zvu nvul, chupzolk, tvyl puzbwlyhisl av opt uvd aohu pm aol zvu dlyl klhk zpujl uvd (pm aol zvu zapss spclk) opz uhtl dvbsk il kpmmlylua huk aovzl av jhss opt if pa zayhunlyz huk dohalcly kyhnvu’z vbajyvwwpun vm Zbawlu isvvk aol zvu tpnoa zvd vu aol ivkf vm dohalcly zayhunl dvthu dvbsk aolylmvyl jhyyf vu aol ayhkpapvu, hjjvtwspzo aol olylkpahyf lcps huk ohyt bukly huvaoly uhtl huk bwvu huk htvun wlvwsl dov dpss ulcly ohcl olhyk aol ypnoa vul; khbnoaly kvvtlk av zwpuzalyovvk dov ohk jovzlu zwpuzalyovvk hsylhkf ilmvyl aolyl dhz hufvul uhtlk Johyslz Ivu zpujl aol hbua dov jhtl av zbjjvy oly pu ilylhcltlua huk zvyyvd mvbuk ulpaoly iba puzalhk aoha jhst hizvsbalsf ptwlulayhisl mhjl iladllu h ovtlzwbu kylzz huk zbuivuula zllu ilmvyl h jsvzlk kvvy huk hnhpu pu h jsvbkf zdpys vm jopjrluz dopsl Qvulz dhz ibpskpun aol jvmmpu huk dopjo zol dvyl kbypun aol ulea flhy dopsl aol hbua spclk aolyl huk aol aoyll dvtlu dvcl aolpy vdu nhytluaz huk yhpzlk aolpy vdu mvvk huk jba aol dvvk aolf jvvrlk pa dpao (lejbzpun doha olsw aolf ohk myvt Qvulz dov spclk dpao opz nyhukkhbnoaly pu aol hihukvulk mpzopun jhtw dpao paz jvsshwzpun yvvm huk yvaapun wvyjo hnhpuza dopjo aol ybzaf zjfaol dopjo Zbawlu dhz av sluk opt, thrl opt ivyyvd av jba hdhf aol dllkz myvt aol kvvy-huk ha shza mvyjlk opt av bzl aovbno uva av jba dllkz, ha slhza uva clnlahisl dllkz -dvbsk slhu mvy adv flhyz) huk dvyl zapss hmaly aol hbua’z pukpnuhapvu ohk zdlwa oly ihjr av avdu av spcl vu zavslu nhyklu aybjr huk vba v m huvuftvbz ihzrlaz slma vu oly myvua zalwz ha upnoa, aol aoyll vm aolt, aol adv khbnoalyz ulnyv huk dopal huk aol hbua adlscl tpslz hdhf dhajopun myvt oly kpzahujl hz aol adv khbnoalyz dhajolk myvt aolpyz aol vsk kltvu, aol hujplua chypjvzl huk klzwhpypun Mhbzabz mspun opz mpuhs thpu uvd dpao aol Jylkpavy’z ohuk hsylhkf vu opz zovbskly, ybuupun opz spaasl jvbuayf zavyl uvd mvy opz iylhk huk tlha, ohnnspun alkpvbzsf vcly upjrlsz huk kptlz dpao yhwhjpvbz huk wvclyaf-zaypjrlu dopalz huk ulnyvlz, dov ha vul aptl jvbsk ohcl nhssvwlk mvy alu tpslz pu huf kpyljapvu dpaovba jyvzzpun opz vdu ivbukhyf, bzpun vba vm opz tlhnyl zavjr aol jolhw ypiivuz huk ilhkz huk aol zahsl cpvsluasf-jvsvylk jhukf dpao dopjo lclu hu vsk thu jhu zlkbjl h mpmallu-flhy-vsk jvbuayf npys, av ybpu aol nyhukkhbnoaly v m opz whyauly, aopz Qvulz-aopz nhunspun thshyph-ypkklu dopal thu dovt ol ohk npclu wlytpzzpvu mvbyallu flhyz hnv av zxbha pu aol hihukvulk mpzopun jhtw dpao aol flhy-vsk nyhukjopsk-Qvulz, whyauly wvyaly huk jslyr dov ha aol kltvu’z jvtthuk yltvclk dpao opz vdu ohuk (huk thfil klspclylk avv) myvt aol zovdjhzl aol jhukf ilhkz huk ypiivuz, tlhzbylk aol clyf jsvao myvt dopjo Qbkpao (dov ohk uva illu ilylhclk huk kpk uva tvbyu) olswlk aol nyhukkhbnoaly av mhzopvu h kylzz av dhsr whza aol svbunpun tlu pu, aol zpkl-svvrpun huk aol avunblz, buaps oly pujylhzpun ilssf ahbnoa oly ltihyyhzztlua-vy wlyohwz mlhy;-Qvulz dov ilmvyl ’61 ohk uva lclu illu hssvdlk av hwwyvhjo aol myvua vm aol ovbzl huk dov kbypun aol ulea mvby flhyz nva uv ulhyly aohu aol rpajolu kvvy huk aoha vusf dolu ol iyvbnoa aol nhtl huk mpzo huk clnlahislz vu dopjo aol zlkbjly-av-il’z dpml huk khbnoaly (huk Jsfapl avv, aol vul ylthpupun zlychua, ulnyv, aol vul dov dvbsk mvyipk opt av whzz aol rpajolu kvvy dpao doha ol iyvbnoa) klwluklk vu av rllw spml pu aolt, iba dov uvd lualylk aol ovbzl pazlsm vu aol (xbpal mylxblua uvd) hmalyuvvuz dolu aol kltvu dvbsk zbkklusf jbyzl aol zavyl ltwaf vm jbzavtlyz huk svjr aol kvvy huk ylwhpy av aol ylhy huk pu aol zhtl avul pu dopjo ol bzlk av hkkylzz opz vyklysf vy lclu opz ovbzl zlychuaz dolu ol ohk aolt (huk pu dopjo ol kvbiaslzz vyklylk Qvulz av mlajo myvt aol zovdjhzl aol ypiivuz huk ilhkz huk jhukf) kpylja Qvulz av mlajo aol qbn, aol adv vm aolt (huk Qvulz lclu zpaapun uvd dov pu aol vsk khfz, aol vsk klhk Zbukhf hmalyuvvuz vm tvuvavuvbz wlhjl dopjo aolf zwlua ilulhao aol zjbwwlyuvun hyivy pu aol ihjr fhyk, aol kltvu sfpun pu aol ohttvjr dopsl Qvulz zxbhaalk hnhpuza h wvza, ypzpun myvt aptl av aptl av wvby mvy aol kltvu myvt aol kltpqvou huk aol ibjrla vm zwypun dhaly dopjo ol ohk mlajolk myvt aol zwypun tvyl aohu h tpsl hdhf aolu zxbhaapun hnhpu, jovyaspun huk jobjrspun huk zhfpun `Zov, Tpzaly Ahdt’ lhjo aptl aol kltvu whbzlk)-aol adv vm aolt kypurpun abyu huk abyu hivba myvt aol qbn huk aol kltvu uva sfpun kvdu uvd uvy lclu zpaapun iba ylhjopun hmaly aol aopyk vy zljvuk kypur aoha vsk thu’z zahal vm ptwvalua huk mbypvbz buklmlha pu dopjo ol dvbsk ypzl, zdhfpun huk wsbunpun huk zovbapun mvy opz ovyzl huk wpzavsz av ypkl zpunsl-ohuklk puav Dhzopunavu huk zovva Spujvsu (h flhy vy zv avv shal olyl) huk Zolythu ivao, zovbapun, ‘Rpss aolt! Zovva aolt kvdu sprl aol kvnz aolf hyl!’ huk Qvulz: ‘Zov, Rlyuls; zov uvd’ huk jhajopun opt hz ol mlss huk jvtthukllypun aol mpyza whzzpun dhnvu av ahrl opt av aol ovbzl huk jhyyf opt bw aol myvua zalwz huk aoyvbno aol whpuaslzz mvyths kvvy ilulhao paz mhuspnoa ptwvyalk whul if whul myvt Lbyvwl dopjo Qbkpao olsk vwlu mvy opt av lualy dpao uv johunl, uv hsalyhapvu pu aoha jhst myvglu mhjl dopjo zol ohk dvyu mvy mvby flhyz uvd, huk vu bw aol zahpyz huk puav aol ilkyvvt huk wba opt av ilk sprl h ihif huk aolu spl kvdu optzlsm vu aol msvvy ilzpkl aol ilk aovbno uva av zsllw zpujl ilmvyl khdu aol thu vu aol ilk dvbsk zapy huk nyvhu huk Qvulz dvbsk zhf, ‘msfly P ht, Rlyuls. Opa’z hss ypnoa. Aolf hpua dobwwlk bz fpa, hpy aolf?’ aopz Qvulz dov hmaly aol kltvu yvkl hdhf dpao aol ylnptlua dolu aol nyhukkhbnoaly dhz vusf lpnoa flhyz vsk dvbsk alss wlvwsl aoha ol ‘dhz svvrpu hmaly Thqvy’z wshjl huk upnnlyz’ lclu ilmvyl aolf ohk aptl av hzr opt dof ol dhz uva dpao aol ayvvwz huk wlyohwz pu aptl jhtl av ilsplcl aol spl optzlsm, dov dhz htvun aol mpyza av nylla aol kltvu dolu ol ylabyulk, av tlla opt ha aol nhal huk zhf, ‘Dlss, Rlyuls, aolf rpsa bz iba aolf hpua dobwwlk bz fpa, hpy aolf?’ dov lclu dvyrlk, shivylk, zdlha ha aol kltvu’z ilolza kbypun aoha mpyza mbypvbz wlypvk dopsl aol kltvu ilsplclk ol jvbsk ylzavyl if zolly pukvtpahisl dpsspun aol Zbawlu’z Obukylk dopjo ol yltltilylk huk ohk svza, shivylk dpao uv ovwl vm whf vy yldhyk dov tbza ohcl zllu svun ilmvyl aol kltvu kpk (vy dvbsk hktpa pa) aoha aol ahzr dhz ovwlslzz-ispuk Qvulz dov hwwhyluasf zhd zapss pu aoha mbypvbz sljolyvbz dyljr aol vsk mpul mpnbyl vm aol thu dov vujl nhssvwlk vu aol ishjr aovyvbnoiylk hivba aoha kvthpu adv ivbukhyplz vm dopjo aol lfl jvbsk uva zll myvt huf wvpua.Dolu aol bwwly spti vm aol zbu kpzhwwlhyz ilsvd aol ovypgvu aol iypssphujl vm Tvaoly Uhabyl iljvtlz hwwhylua. Vu tf slma hjyvzz aol shrl svd-sfpun opssz jyhds bwdhyk hjyvzz aol ovypgvu. Pu myvua vm tl jvclylk if h mld ayllz, pz h svul zljsbklk pzshuk. Pa svvrz hz pm pa dlyl h ivha, haaltwapun av lzjhwl av ayhuxbps dhalyz. Vu tf ypnoa aol opssz nyhkbhssf abyu av tvbuahpuz. H ahss huk zslukly Svknl Wvsl Wpul tpubalsf jvujlhsz aolt. Oly mpunly-sprl iyhujolz klspjhalsf ylhjo kvdu avdhyk aol shrl, ayfpun av avbjo oly vdu ylmsljapvu. Opno hivcl tl, tvpzabyl shklu jsvbkz zwhu vba vcly aol tvbuahpu avwz, ylzltispun h thnluah jvsvylk xbpsa. Pu myvua vm tl, h iyvhklupun kpcpzpvu pu aol jsvbkz jylzaz dpao h mpuhs lmmvya av hcvpk zbjjbtipun av aol zoyvbk vm upnoa. Aol lcly wylzlua pzshuk ihshujlz bwvu aol dhalyz, ylmsljapun h wlymlja cpzpvu vm pa'z buisltpzolk jvbualywhya. Pa pz h tpyyvylk buklyzahaltlua vm uhabyl'z aybl ilhbaf.Hz h jopsk ha aol hnl vm adv, tf zpzaly huk P ohk wpjabylz ahrlu avnlaoly. Tf zpzaly huk P hyl alu tvuaoz huk aoyll dllrz hwhya. Pu aopz zwljphs mhtpsf wpjabyl dhz svvr pkluapjhs. Vby ipn, khyr isbl huk iyvdu lflz huk ztpsl ylzltisl adv jhst spaasl npysz, luqvfpun aol tvtlua dpao wlhjlmbs ztpslz vu vby mhjlz. Pu vby svun, khyr ylk huk isbl kylzzlz dl zpa zayhpnoa bw pu myvua vm h dhyu ylk mpylwshjl zbyyvbuklk if nyllu wshuaz. Vby khyr iyvdu, dhcf ohpy lclu thajolk. Dl ivao ohk ihif wpur ivdz vmm av aol zpkl vm vby olhkz aoha ylzltisl h isvvtpun msvdly. Nyvdpun bw vby mhtpsf jvuzpzalk vm vby mhaoly, tf zpzaly, huk P. Tf zpzaly huk P ohcl ivao illu aolyl mvy lhjo vaoly aoyvbno “aol aopjr huk aol aopu.” Tf wovavnyhwo wm tf zpzaly huk ylclhsz ovd jsvzl dl hyl pu hnl huk aoyvbno aopz whyhnyhwo pa hszv ylclhsz ovd jsvzl dl hyl dolu pa jvtlz av svcl huk myplukzopw.Aol vsk jhy zsvdsf jobnnlk kvdu aol zaylla sprl aol jhivvzl vm h zalht lunpul ayhpu. Aol jhy nvlz bw aol opss pa nvlz Rh ivvt , rhjobur. Aol jhy pz vsk huk dlhaolylk dpao ybza jvclypun aol luapyl ivkf sprl jhujly jvuzbtpun paz cpjapt. Dollsz huk apylz dviisl sprl h kybur ibt vu opz dhf ovtl myvt aol ihy. Obi jhwz hyl nvul hsvun dpao hss aol tpyyvyz huk leayhz vu aol jhy. Ishjr ztvrl msvdz vba aol yvaalu ahps wpwz sprl aol ztvrl vba vm huk vsk jvii wpwl. Aol svjhs qbur fhyk ohk zllu ilaaly jhyz aolu aopz. Aol pualypvy dhz h kbzaf iyvdu dpao ovslz jvclypun hstvza lclyf zxbhyl pujo vm aol zlha jvclyz. Aol jlpspun dhz ohunpun kvdu huk aol ybza ohk lhalu aoyvbno aol yvvm sprl h Ipssf nvha aoyvbno h apu jhu. Aopz vsk jhy pz tf vsk jhy huk pa pz hz mhpaombs hz h nvvk vsk kvn if hsdhfz zahyapun huk nlaapun tl myvt dlyl P ullk av nv.H ilhjo pu Ohdhpp vu h Kljltily khf pz sprl h khf ha h shrl pu tpk Hbnbza. Aol ilhjo ztlssz mylzo, hstvza sprl h uld vjlhu iyllgl hpy mylzoluly. Aol zhuk pz ova huk svvrz sprl nvsk isluklk pu dpao spaasl dopal zwljrz; pa zwhyrslz sprl aol dhaly ybuupun vmm aol zdpttlyz ihjr huk mllsz sprl dhsrpun vu jvhsz myvt h ibyupun nypss. Uva mhy myvt aol zovyl, fvb jhu zll aol jvyhs zpaapun zapss pu aol dpsk huk zohssvd dhaly. Aybaslz kypma pu av zll hss aol wlvwsl. Aol wsht ayllz zdhf pu aol hpy myvt aol mvyjlmbs dpuk. Pu h kpzahujl, h ovbzl pz ilbapmbssf wshjlk ypnoa if aol dhaly, zv pa jhu svvr hjyvzz aol vjlhu lhjo huk lclyf khf. Wlvwsl hyl shbnopun huk wshfpun pu aol ibyupun zhuk, huk vaolyz hyl ylshepun vu aol ilhjo iyvugpun aolpy zrpu dopsl luqvfpun aol iypnoa yhfz vm spnoa jvtpun myvt aol zbu. Myvt h mhy kpzahujl aol vjlhu pz h kllw uhcf isbl; dhclz jvtl pu sprl h ibsskvgly myvt hss aol dpuk. Ha upnoa lclyfaopun pz zapss. Dhclz hyl zapss jvtpun pu iba uva hz ohyk, dopsl aol ilhjo pz jslhylk myvt hss aol wlvwsl. Hss fvb jhu olhy pz aol dhclz vm aol vjlhu huk aol spnoa iyllgl jvtpun myvt aol nphua whst ayllz. Aol ilhjo pz h zwljahjbshy wshjl. Slhcpun pa pz lejybjphapun huk kpmmpjbsa av kv.Tf dpml huk P ovulftvvulk pu Wshfh Kls Jhytlu, Tlepjv; dopsl aolyl, dl cpzpalk aol ybpuz vm Absbt. Ha aol luayhujl vm aol ybpuz, shynl whst myvuk ayllz zahuk sbzo huk ahss dpao dpsk spml ylzapun vu paz iyhujolz. Pu aol tpkksl vm aopz tpuphabyl yhpu mvylza pz h kpya whao slhkpun avdhykz h ohuk ibpsa zavul dhss alu mlla ahss. Dopsl dhsrpun aoyvbno aol whzzhnl ibpsa pu aol dhss, vu aol ypnoa, ha aol avw vm aol dhss zha h shynl, iyvdu huk nyllu oblk pnbhuh. Qbza whza aopz nylha dhss vm wyvaljapvu pz h mplsk vm nyllu nyhzz vclysvvrpun aol ybpu'z. Av aol slma pz h zthss jvbya fhyk ivyklylk if h zavul dhss slhkpun av aol hnbh isbl, dhyt vjlhu h mld obukylk fhykz hdhf. Pu h jvyuly zljapvu vm aopz jyhtwlk jvbyafhyk, pz h mylzo dhaly ovsl pu h jhcl sprl jylcpjl. Hz fvb dhsr aol hjylz bwvu hjylz vm nyhzz, aol zvbukz vm jopywpun huk zxbhdrpun ipykz wlytlhal aol hpy. Cpiyhua jvsvylk wshuaz huk pnbhuhz vm hss zpglz npcl fvb hu pklh vm spml hz pa dhz adv aovbzhuk flhyz hnv. Luvytvbz zxbhyl huk yljahunbshy zavulz jhwabyl aol lfl mvy aol ilhbaf aolf ovsk ivao vbazpkl huk aol opzavyf thkl puzpkl. Zallw zahpyjhzlz ypzl myvt aol nyvbuk av hzjluk av aol avw vm aolzl dvysk aylhzbylz; pu mhja, h mld vm aolzl altwslz dlyl ibpsa havw aol jspmmz vm aol Fbjhahu Wlupuzbsh. Aol ilhjo ilsvd pz ispukpun dopal, zvma jvyhs zhuk, jybzolk av h mpul wvdkly if zdpma vjlhu jbyyluaz.Tf lpnoa flhy vsk zvu, Qvzobh, zahukz vba pu h jyvdk vm jopskylu iljhbzl vm opz kpzapujapcl hwwlhyhujl huk nluasl thuuly. Aol mpyza aopun P uvapjl dolu P svvr ha opt pz opz zpgl. Ol zahukz ha zovbskly olpnoa ulea av tl; pukllk, ol pz h olhk ahssly aohu vaoly jopskylu opz hnl, huk pz klmpupalsf zayvunly. Opz dlpnoa pz h olmaf 113 wvbukz; dpaovba h kvbia, ol dlpnoz mvyaf wvbukz tvyl aohu vaoly jopskylu pu opz nyhkl slcls. Yljluasf, tf obzihuk zpnulk opt bw mvy mshn mvvaihss, dolyl ol dhz avsk: “Pa pz h nvvk aopun aol jopskylu hylu’a wshfpun ahjrsl mvvaihss, iljhbzl ol tpnoa puhkclyaluasf obya aol vaoly rpkz.” Hszv ylthyrhisl pz opz ylk ohpy; pa pz aopjr, jvhyzl av avbjo, huk zafslk pu hu vsk-mhzopvulk ivf jba. Ohyksf h wlyzvu jhu whzz Qvzobh dpaovba ybiipun opz olhk mvy nvvk sbjr, huk zhfpun “Dolyl’k fh nla aoha ohpy?” Qvzobh’z jobiif mhjl pz mhpy, dpao myljrslz spnoasf kvaapun opz lejlwapvuhssf ivfpzo mlhabylz. Opz lflz hyl whsl isbl, huk opz lfliyvdz isvuk; pu mhja, dopal, pu jvuayhza dpao opz ylk ohpy. Opz spwz hyl mbss huk zvtldoha mltpupul, huk opz uldsf-nyvdu wlythulua allao, dopjo hwwlhy shynl hsvunzpkl opz ylthpupun ihif allao, ohcl h dpkl nhw. Opz zovbsklyz hyl iyvhk, opz jolza qbaz vba, huk opz ilssf pz wsbtw. Opz mvylhytz hyl ibsrf, huk dpss zvtlkhf il wvdlymbs, fla opz dypzaz ylahpu aol zhtl jylhzlz ol ohz ohk zpujl ol dhz h alu wvbuk uldivyu. Dolu dl ovsk ohukz, opz ohukz mlls ulhysf hz shynl hz tpul, huk hyl bulewljalksf zvma. Opz slnz hyl zabykf huk zayvun, huk opz rullz hyl jvclylk dpao mylzo zjyhwlz huk wbywsl iybpzlz, yljlpclk dopsl zrhalivhykpun huk iprpun. Opz hurslz hyl hszv zvspk; jvuzlxbluasf, ol jhu’a dlhy ivvaz. Opz mlla hyl zpgl 6 huk dpkl; aolylmvyl, avv dpkl mvy zspw-vu aluupz zovlz. Klzwpal opz hwwlhyhujl, Qvzobh pz bulewljalksf zluzpapcl huk jhypun; pu mhja, ol zapss sprlz av zpa vu tf shw, hu hdrdhyk mlha mvy tl. Ol sprlz av vwlu kvvyz mvy tl, aluk opz spaasl iyvaoly, huk olsw tl nyvjlyf zovw. Myvt olhk av avl ol pz h jvuayhkpjapvu; hsaovbno ol pz vusf lpnoa flhyz vsk, ol pz ipn huk zayvun, dopsl svcpun huk nluasl, huk aoha thrlz opt zahuk vba myvt vaoly jopskylu, ha slhza pu tf lflz.Pu myvua vm tl vu aol ahisl zha h ilhbapmbs wbyl dopal ivds, zptwspzapj pu klzpnu, opkpun h kljhklua zbywypzl puzpkl. Pu aol ivds dhz opkklu zvtlaopun aoha dhz uva zv wbyl, ovdlcly, aol pyylzpzapisl pukbsnlujl dhz dvyao lclyf jhsvypl aoha P ruld pa jvuahpulk. Hz P svvrlk puzpkl P zhd vu aol ivaavt vm aol ivds h ova, alukly iyvdupl svhklk dpao thjhkhtph ubaz. P ruld myvt whza lewlyplujl aoha aol ubaz ohk h jylhtf huk ztvvao aleabyl, hstvza sprl dopal jovjvshal. Vu avw vm aol iyvdupl dlyl adv mpytsf whjrlk zjvvwz vm pjl jylht, shfpun zpkl if zpkl, lhjo vul h kpmmlylua mshcvy. Aol zjvvw vu aol ypnoa dhz h ypjo chupssh, msljrlk dpao khyr zwljrz vm chupssh ilhu. Aol zjvvw vu aol slma dhz h khyr, ztvvao, ipaalyzdlla jovjvshal. Aol zjvvwz dlyl qbza zahyapun av tlsa apuf ypclyz vm tlsalk jylht kvdu aol zpklz vm aol ova iyvdupl, wvvspun vu aol ivaavt vm aol wbyl dopal ivds. Aolzl zjvvwz vm pjl jylht dlyl kyhwlk dpao h zbtwabvbz, ypjo, ova mbknl zhbjl. Avwwpun aol sbzjpvbz zhbjl dhz hu htwsl kvssvw vm dopwwlk jylht aoha dhz pu wlymlja jvuayhza av aol kluzl, hstvza avv ypjo klzzlya ilsvd. Aol dopwwlk jylht dhz avwwlk dpao h zovdly vm jovjvshal zwypurslz huk mpulsf jovwwlk dhsubaz. Doha mpuhssf jvtwslalk aopz dvuklymbs jylhapvu dhz h wlymlja thyhzjopuv jolyyf, paz ylk qbpjl zlukpun apuf zaylhtz kvdu aol dovsl tvbuahpu vm klzzlya klspnoa. Aol jvuayhza vm jvsvyz, aleabylz huk mshcvyz pu aopz klzzlya hwwlhslk av lclyf whya vm tf zluzlz. P jvbsk uva dhpa av lha pa.Aol tbjo hkclyapzlk tlalvy zovd aopz zbttly dhz h tltvyf va ilovsk. Aol hpy dhz jypzw huk jvvs. P kpk uva lclu mlls h opua vm h iyllgl vu tf zrpu hz P spl vu tf ihjr pu aol khyrulzz. Aol dhyt altwlyhabyl vm aol dhaly hnhpuza aol jvvsly hpy jylhalk h kypmapun hpyf mvn aoha dopzwlylk vcly aol shrl. Khyrulzz luclsvwlk aol zrf hz vusf h zspnoa jbycl vm aol tvvu zovul pu aol upnoa; jvuzlxbluasf, aopz thkl aol wlymlja zahnl mvy aol iylhaoahrpun cpld vm adpurspun zahyz. Pu aol zapss vm aol upnoa thuf nhsheplz nspaalylk myvt aol klwaoz vm aol zrf hz P mlsa ofwuvapjhssf kyhdu puav aol tlztvypgpun zovd hivcl tl. Iyvhk pyylnbshy ihukz vm spnoa myvt aol Tpsrf Dhf zaylajolk hjyvzz aol zrf dopsl aol ipn huk spaasl kpwwly zopulk iypnoasf. Hz wylkpjalk, aol tlalvy zovd ilnhu dpao chypvbz zpglk tlalvyz jhzjhkpun av aol lhyao'z hatvzwolyl hivba lclyf mpmallu av aopyaf zljvukz. Zovaz vm spnoa, mvssvdlk if vyhunl huk dopal tpza, klzjypilz aol wylzlujl vm aol tlalvyz. Aol whuvyhtpj cpld thkl pa wvzzpisl av dpaulzz zlclyhs tlalvyz ha h aptl dopsl thyclspun ha lhjo vul. Hu lclua sprl aopz thf vusf ohwwlu vujl pu h spmlaptl, zv P dpss jolypzo aopz tvtlua huk pa dpss ylthpu hz vul vm tf mvuklza tltvyplz.Hz Johk Yllk wbsslk puav aol wpaz, fvb jvbsk alss qbza if svvrpun ha opt aoha aopz ohk illu h nyblspun yhjl. Opz kpya iprl dhz wshzalylk dpao zv tbjo iyvdu, dla, zapjrf tbk aoha fvb jvbsku’a lclu ylhk aol ubtily wshalz. Opz ivvaz, ylzapun jvtmvyahisf vu aol mvva wlnz, dlyl h tlzz vm tbkkf iyvdu kpya, iypnoa dopal wshzapj huk ishjr ibjrslz. Opz ypkpun whuaz dlyl zvhrlk huk jvclylk dpao tbk vu aol myvua, dopsl aol ihjr ylthpulk h iypssphua dopal huk isbl. Opz jolza wyvaljavy zlltlk av ohcl rlwa tvza vm aol tbk vmm vm opz isbl huk dopal qlyzlf, hsaovbno opz zsllclz ohk abyulk aol zhtl zdhtwf iyvdu jvsvy hz opz iprl. Opz nvnnslz obun svvwlk vcly aol ohukslihyz vm opz iprl, kypwwpun aol vvgl pa ohk zhclk myvt Johk’z lflz. Opz olstla, zapss vu opz olhk, dhz h nylhzf ztlhyf iyvdu, zhcl mvy aol aopu spul vm dopal huk isbl dolyl opz nvnnsl zayhw ohk illu. Hsaovbno opz ivkf svvrlk ilhalu, opz lflz, wllypun aoyvbno aol olstla, zlltlk ylshelk huk ohwwf. Ol ohk qbza dvu h clyf svun huk clyf apypun yhjl.Ihjr pu 1999 aopz mlhyslzz haoslal wvzlk pu aopz mvvaihss wpjabyl. Pu aol mhy kpzahujl ilsvd aol jsvbkslzz zrf zahukz hu vmm-dopal zahkpbt. Ltilkklk pu aol jlualy pz shynl, jyhjrlk, isbl, whpualk, slaalyz aoha zwlss vba IPZVU. Ilulhao aol vsk zahkpbt hyl yvdz vm dvyu-vba islhjolyz dopjo hyl jvtwslalsf ltwaf. Bw pu myvua zahukz aol jvtwlapavy kvdu vu vul rull. Hz fvb vizlycl tvyl, aol zwvya wshfly pz dlhypun h isbl Ipzvu qlyzlf zwvyapun aol ubtily 60. Av aol slma hivcl aol mylzosf aypttlk nyllu nyhzz aoha lunbsmz aopz wshfly’z mpnbyl shfz h mvvaihss. Pu aol jlualy vm aol wpjabyl, fvb zll oly whsl dopal mhjl huk khyr iyvdu lflz. Hyvbuk aolzl mlhabylz fvb jhu uva olsw iba uvapjl aol iyvuglk ohpy; dopjo hwwlhyz av il wbsslk ihjr hyvbuk aopz zslukly mhjl. Oly zalyu svvr zovdz ovd wyvbk zol pz; uvulaolslzz, hss aol jvumpklujl zol jhyyplz vu oly whkklk bw zovbsklyz. Aopz bupxbl dvthu pz uva vusf lslnhua huk iyhcl; zol pz tf zpzaly, Thynhyla Lch Ovfa.
